[[_TOC_]]

## Synopsis

**ue.el** provides a minor mode for working with [Unreal Engine](https://www.unrealengine.com/) projects in GNU Emacs.
It complements [Unreal Emacs plug-in](https://gitlab.com/unrealemacs/emacs-sourcecode-access) and uses project files it
generates.

Internally it is based on [Projectile](https://github.com/bbatsov/projectile).
It means that you can use Projectile's commands for greping (or acking) files, switching between alternating files, etc.

This is a work-in-progress project.

## Features

### Supported Projectile Features

The project extends Projectile with Unreal Engine support and supports most of its features.
Please, refer to [Projectile usage documentation](https://docs.projectile.mx/projectile/usage.html) for the list of things you can do.

The following Projectile features are not supported yet:

- Test-related commands
- Running Project/UnrealEditor executables (coming soon!)
- Debugging (will be added at some point)

#### Building the Project

Unreal Engine projects could be built for different platforms and configurations.

The `ue.el` uses the same key bindings to build a project as Projectile `s-p c`.
If you haven't set project run configuration yet, the `ue.el` will ask you to choose one next time you build the project.
It will not ask for it again if it is set.


#### Mode Line

You can see the current run configuration in the mode-line:

```
ue[MyBigProjectEditor-Mac-DebugGame]
```

If the configuration is unknown, the mode-line looks as follows:

```
ue[?]
```

### Syntax Highlighting

There are a few Unreal Engine keywords and macro highlighted by default.

#### Keywords

- `UCLASS`
- `UDELEGATE`
- `UENUM`
- `UFUNCTION`
- `UINTERFACE`
- `UMETA`
- `UPARAM`
- `UPROPERTY`
- `USTRUCT`

Keywords faces are configured by altering `ue-attribute-face` variable which is set to `font-lock-preprocessor-face` by default.

#### Macro

- `GENERATED_BODY`
- `GENERATED_IINTERFACE_BODY`
- `GENERATED_UCLASS_BODY`
- `GENERATED_UINTERFACE_BODY`
- `GENERATED_USTRUCT_BODY`

Macro faces could be configured by altering `ue-generated-body-macro-face` variable which is set to `font-lock-preprocessor-face` by default.

### Snippets

The package activates a few Unreal Engine snippets if you have [yasnippet](https://github.com/joaotavora/yasnippet) installed.
More snippets will be added in the future.

#### Logging

| Key      | Description                    |
| ---      | ---                            |
| `ulh`    | Declares a custom log category |
| `ulc`    | Defines a custom log category  |
| `ull`    | Writes a message to the log    |

#### UPROPERTY

| Key      | Description                    |
| ---      | ---                            |
| `upc`    | Component `UPROPERTY`          |
| `upe`    | `UPROPERTY(EditDefaultsOnly)`  |
| `ups`    | `TSubclassOf UPROPERTY`        |
| `upv`    | `UPROPERTY(VisibleEverywhere)` |

#### UFUNCTION

| Key      | Description                    |
| ---      | ---                            |
| `uff`    | `UFUNCTION(BlueprintCallable)` |
| `ufp`    | `UFUNCTION(BlueprintPure)`     |

#### Events

All event snippets use the same mnemonic.
They start with `u` like all Unreal Engine snippets.
Then either `c` (**c**pp, i.e. declare event handler) or `h` (**h**eader, i.e. define event handler) or `s` (**s**ubscribe to event) follows.
Then follows the lowercase event name.

| Key      | Description                    |
| ---      | ---                            |
| `uconcomponentbeginoverlap` | Define `OnComponentBeginOverlap` event handler  |
| `uhoncomponentbeginoverlap` | Declare `OnComponentBeginOverlap` event handler |
| `usoncomponentbeginoverlap` | Subscribe to `OnComponentBeginOverlap` event    |

#### Misc

| Key      | Description                    |
| ---      | ---                            |
| `ucds`   | `CreateDefaultSubobject`       |
| `utext`  | `TEXT()`                       |

## Setup

### Installation

The project is not released yet and is not available on any of Emacs repositories, which means you have to install it manually.

#### Manual

Clone the project:

```shell
$ mkdir -p ~/Documents/Projects/UnrealEmacs
$ cd ~/Documents/Projects/UnrealEmacs
$ git clone git@gitlab.com:unrealemacs/ue.el.git ue
```

Add the cloned directory to Emacs `load-path` in your `init.el` file:

```elisp
(add-to-list 'load-path "~/Documents/Projects/UnrealEmacs/ue")
```

## Usage

### The global mode

Use the package as a global mode:

```elisp
(require 'ue)

(ue-global-mode)
```

That will turn on the local `ue-mode` for the buffers which belong to an Unreal Engine projects generated by [Unreal Emacs plug-in](https://gitlab.com/unrealemacs/emacs-sourcecode-access).

Probably you should read Projectile's [README](https://github.com/bbatsov/projectile) on setting up the completion system,
caching and indexing files.

## Caveats

Project still has to be tested on GNU/Linux and Windows.

There is no default key binding for switching the run configuration yet :) 
You can do that manually via `M-x ue-select-project-target`.
